🔒 What is Session Management?

✅ English:
Session management means keeping track of a user's activity while they are using your web application — like whether they are logged in or not, who they are, etc.

✅ Hindi:
Session management का मतलब है कि आपकी वेबसाइट यह याद रखती है कि कौन-सा यूज़र लॉग इन है, वह क्या कर रहा है, और कितनी देर से एक्टिव है। 	


Stateful (HttpSession):

The server remembers the user.

The session ID is stored on the server.

After logging in, the server keeps track of the user via a session ID.

Example: Traditional web applications, like banking websites.

Ex:

You log in to a website.

The server creates a session and sends a session ID in the response (stored in cookies).

On every request, the browser sends the session ID, and the server remembers you (no need to log in again).

Stateless (JWT):

The server does not remember the user.

The user sends a token (JWT) with every request, and the server validates the token.

Example: Modern REST APIs, where each request is independent and doesn’t rely on server-side session storage.

@PostMapping("/login")
public String login(HttpSession session, String username, String password) {
    if (username.equals("user") && password.equals("password")) {
        session.setAttribute("username", username);
        return "Logged in successfully";
    }
    return "Invalid credentials";
}


Ex: 

You log in to a website.

The server generates a JWT token (which contains your user information, like username and expiration time).

The server sends this token back to you, and from then on, you send the token in every request to authenticate.

@PostMapping("/login")
public String login(@RequestBody User user) {
    if (user.getUsername().equals("user") && user.getPassword().equals("password")) {
        String token = jwtUtil.generateToken(user.getUsername());
        return token; // Send JWT token back to the user
    }
    return "Invalid credentials";
}


✅ CSRF = Cross-Site Request Forgery
🔸 English Explanation:
CSRF is a security attack where a malicious website tricks a logged-in user into unknowingly sending requests to another website (where the user is already authenticated).

🧠 Example:
You are logged in to your bank website in one tab.

In another tab, you visit a malicious site.

That malicious site sends a request like:
POST /transfer?amount=1000&to=attacker
Your browser automatically includes your session cookies, so the bank thinks the request is valid!

➡️ The bank processes the request because it thinks it came from you.

🔸 Hindi Explanation:
CSRF एक सुरक्षा हमला है जिसमें एक धोखेबाज वेबसाइट, आपके नाम से एक वैध वेबसाइट पर जबरन request भेजती है, जबकि आप पहले से login होते हो।

🧠 उदाहरण:
आपने अपनी bank की वेबसाइट पर login किया हुआ है।

आप किसी दूसरी फेक वेबसाइट पर जाते हो।

वो वेबसाइट आपके ब्राउज़र से bank को एक ट्रांसफर request भेजती है, और आपके ब्राउज़र के cookies के कारण बैंक को लगता है कि ये request आपने भेजी है।

➡️ पैसा किसी गलत अकाउंट में चला जाता है — बिना आपकी मर्जी के।


We disable CSRF in REST APIs because they don’t use sessions or cookies for authentication — they use tokens 
like JWT, which are not vulnerable to CSRF.

Authentication : veryfying the user identity.

Authorization : It gives the permissiom to access specific resource.

Filter : 