What is ORM, JPA, and Hibernate?
Let’s understand them together step by step.

1. ORM (Object-Relational Mapping)
Definition:
ORM is a concept or technique that maps Java objects to database tables and vice versa, eliminating the need for writing SQL queries.

Key Benefits:

Work with objects in Java instead of database-specific SQL.
Simplifies handling of relationships between tables (e.g., One-to-Many, Many-to-Many).
Reduces boilerplate code for database operations.
2. JPA (Java Persistence API)
Definition:
JPA is a specification provided by Java that defines how ORM should work in Java applications. It provides rules and guidelines but does not do the actual work of ORM itself.

Key Features:

Defines annotations like @Entity, @Table, @Id, etc., to map Java classes to database tables.
Allows database operations like persist, find, and delete using a consistent API.
Works with multiple ORM frameworks like Hibernate, EclipseLink, etc.
3. Hibernate
Definition:
Hibernate is the most widely used implementation of the JPA specification. It provides all JPA features and adds many advanced features like caching, lazy loading, and custom query support (HQL).

Key Features:

Implements JPA annotations and APIs.
Adds additional functionalities (e.g., second-level caching, better support for advanced queries).
Handles database-specific dialects automatically.
How They Work Together
ORM is the concept.
It defines how to map Java objects to database tables.

JPA provides the rules for ORM.
It tells you how to use annotations and APIs to implement ORM in your Java application.

Hibernate is the tool that implements JPA.
It does the heavy lifting by translating Java objects into SQL and interacting with the database.

Example in Spring Boot
A simple Student entity mapped to a database table:

java
Copy
Edit
@Entity // JPA annotation to mark this class as a database entity
public class Student {

    @Id // JPA annotation for primary key
    @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY) // Auto-generates ID values
    private Long id;

    private String name;

    private String email;

    // Getters and Setters
}
Repository using Spring Data JPA:

java
Copy
Edit
public interface StudentRepository extends JpaRepository<Student, Long> {
    List<Student> findByName(String name); // JPA will create the query automatically
}
When this repository method is called, the following happens:

JPA: Provides the abstraction and query-building rules.
Hibernate: Executes the SQL queries and maps the results back to Java objects.
ORM: Handles the conversion between the Student object and the corresponding table in the database.
In Simple Words:
ORM: The concept of mapping Java objects to database tables.
JPA: The set of rules and guidelines for doing ORM in Java.
Hibernate: The tool that implements these rules and makes ORM work efficiently.