Basic Questions
What is multithreading?

Multithreading is a process of executing multiple threads at same time . Threads are lightweight sub-processes that share the same memory but execute independently.

What is the difference between a process and a thread?

Process: A program in execution; has its own memory space.
Thread: A lightweight sub-process that shares the memory of the process it belongs to.

What are the benefits of multithreading?

Efficient resource use
Threads share the same memory space, which allows for efficient resource use and communication. 
Concurrent execution
Multithreading allows for the concurrent execution of multiple programs, which improves overall system efficiency. 
Faster execution time
Splitting tasks into smaller, parallelizable components reduces the overall execution time. 


How can you create a thread in Java?

There are two ways:
Extend Thread class:
java
Copy code
class MyThread extends Thread {
    public void run() {
        System.out.println("Thread is running");
    }
}
new MyThread().start();

Implement Runnable interface:

class MyRunnable implements Runnable {
    public void run() {
        System.out.println("Thread is running");
    }
}
new Thread(new MyRunnable()).start();

What is the difference between start() and run() methods?

start(): Creates a new thread and executes the run() method in a new thread.
Can’t be invoked more than one time otherwise throws java.lang.IllegalStateException
Defined in java.lang.Thread class.


run(): Executes the run() method in the current thread without creating a new thread.
Multiple invocation is possible
Defined in java.lang.Runnable interface and must be overridden in the implementing class.

Intermediate Questions
What is the lifecycle of a thread?

New: Thread is created but not started.
Runnable: Thread is ready to run but waiting for CPU time.
Running: Thread is executing.
Blocked/Waiting: Thread is waiting for a resource or another thread to finish.
Terminated: Thread has completed execution.

What is thread synchronization, and why is it needed?.....

Synchronization ensures that only one thread can access a critical section at a time, preventing race conditions.
Achieved using synchronized blocks or methods.

What is a deadlock in multithreading?......

Deadlock occurs when two or more threads are waiting for each other to release resources, and none can proceed.

What is the difference between synchronized methods and synchronized blocks?

Synchronized method: Locks the entire method.
Synchronized block: Locks only the specific code block, offering more granular control.

What are thread priorities?

Each thread has a priority (default is Thread.NORM_PRIORITY = 5).
Priorities range from Thread.MIN_PRIORITY (1) to Thread.MAX_PRIORITY (10).
Higher-priority threads get more CPU time, but thread scheduling is not guaranteed.


Advanced Questions

What is the difference between wait(), notify(), and notifyAll()?

wait(): Makes a thread wait until it is notified.
notify(): Wakes up a single waiting thread.
notifyAll(): Wakes up all waiting threads.

What is the difference between volatile and synchronized?

volatile: Ensures visibility of changes to variables across threads but does not provide atomicity.
synchronized: Ensures both atomicity and visibility but is more expensive due to locking.

What is a thread-safe class?

A class is thread-safe if it can be safely accessed and modified by multiple threads simultaneously without introducing inconsistent behavior.
Examples: StringBuffer, Vector, ConcurrentHashMap.

What is the difference between Runnable and Callable?

Runnable: Does not return a result and cannot throw checked exceptions.
Callable: Returns a result and can throw checked exceptions.

What is a Thread Pool?

A thread pool is a collection of pre-created threads that can be reused to execute tasks, reducing the overhead of thread creation.
Managed using the ExecutorService framework in Java.

Practical Questions
How do you avoid deadlocks in Java?

Use proper resource ordering.
Use a timeout for thread locks.
Avoid nested locks.
What are the differences between ReentrantLock and synchronized?

ReentrantLock offers more flexibility (e.g., try-locking, fair locks) compared to synchronized.
synchronized is simpler to use and automatically releases the lock.
How does the join() method work?

The join() method makes the current thread wait until the thread on which it is called has finished executing.
java
Copy code
Thread t = new Thread(() -> System.out.println("Thread running"));
t.start();
t.join(); // Wait for thread t to complete
What is the ForkJoinPool?

It is a framework introduced in Java 7 for parallel execution of tasks by dividing them into smaller subtasks.
How can you handle uncaught exceptions in threads?

By using Thread.setDefaultUncaughtExceptionHandler or Thread.setUncaughtExceptionHandler.
Tips for Freshers:
Focus on writing basic multithreaded programs.
Understand concepts like thread lifecycle, synchronization, and common problems like deadlocks.
Be prepared to explain and debug simple multithreading examples.